========================
30 DAY PROJECT CHALLENGE
========================

:date: 2019-04-01 17:20
:tags: 30-day-project-challenge
:category: blog
:slug: 30-day-project-challenge
:summary: Each month I will tackle a different python project. The goal is to focus on the **process** of learning, rather than on the project **result**. To this end, I am not limiting myself in regards to the difficulty of the project (although, most of these projects will probably be something reasonable that can be accomplished in 30 days). My goal is simply to choose a project that interests me and to work on it daily for 30 days to see how far I get. If at the end, I've got a working product, great, if not, at least I would have learned something. At the end of the 30 days, I will begin a new project.

--------------------------------------
What is it?
--------------------------------------

The **30 Day Project Challenge** is my commitment to working on a project of my choosing daily for 30 days. At the end of this time period, I will do a self-assessment.

--------------------------------------
Why do it?
--------------------------------------

There are two pieces of advice I often hear given to developers interested in picking up a new skill: 

1. **Work on something real**
    Choose a real project (something that interests you). Doing tutorials is fun, but the real learning happens when you are forced to figure things out for yourself. 

2. **Work incrementally**
    No one can train for a marathon in a single day. The way to climb a mountain is one step at a time. One of my favorite authors and one of the most prolific writers of all time, Stephen King, maintains the habit of writing daily for a set time period each day.

This challenge fulfills both of those goals. 

--------------------------------------
How will it work?
--------------------------------------

1. I must create my own project. While I can use tutorials to assist, the goal is to develop my own thing, not just blindly follow tutorials.

2. I must commit to working on this every day for at least 20 minutes (barring some sort of emergency).

3. At the end of the 30 days, I will evaluate my progress, and then *move on to a new project*. 

4. The self-assessment must answer the following questions:

   a. What did you learn?
   b. How far did you get?
   c. What were the roadblocks?
   d. What would you do differently?
   e. How do you feel about what you accomplished?

Why 30 days?
~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is key - this ensures that my learning doesn't stall. It is very easy to get stuck on a problem and feel unwilling to start anything new until the roadblock is solved. By setting the 30-day limit, I remain focused on the **process** of learning, rather than on the **result** (after all, I'm not trying to reinvent the wheel). 

--------------------------------------
Let's get started?
--------------------------------------

I will be using this blog to keep track of my learning journey. Stay Tuned!!!